---
tags: 
 - admin
---
# Undefined and implementation-defined behaviors not deemed ruleworthy

1.  Do not use identifiers that are already declared
    1.  e.g., don't name a variable `errno`
2.  Do not pass functions invalid values
3.  For floating point exception functions, only pass `0` or bitwise OR of floating point macros
4.  Do not modify the string returned by `setlocale()` or `localeconv()`
5.  Do not call `setjmp()` in stupid places (eg. header files)
6.  Do not call `longjmp()` before calling `setjmp()`
7.  Do not call `va_start()` with a parameter declared with the register storage class, of array type, or a type that isn't compatible with the type after default argument promotions
8.  Do not try to get the address constant of a bit-field
    1.  e.g., do not: `      &(t.             member-designator            )     `
9.  When functions fail, data structures often have indeterminate contents
    1.  e.g., `wcsxfrm()` , `wcsftime()` , `mbrtowc()` , `wcrtomb()` , `strxfrm()` , `strftime()`
10. Do not mismatch multibyte conversion states with character sequences in another state
11. Do not change the `LC_CTYPE` in between calls to character conversion functions
12. Only pass functions the type they ask for
    1.  We might already have a rule for this, but I couldn't find it
13. If the result of a function cannot be represented, the behavior is [undefined](/sei-cert-c-coding-standard/back-matter/bb-definitions#BB.Definitions-undefinedbehavior)
    1.  e.g., `abs()` , `labs()` , `llabs()` , `div()` , `ldiv()` , `lldiv()` .
14. Do not cast a `void` expression to another type.
15. Ensure expressions are compatible with the return types of the functions they call.
16. Source files should always have a trailing newline.
17. Constant expressions must consist entirely of constant components.
18. Do not access anything through an address constant.
19. Do not declare a function with a type qualifier
20. Do not declare an integer constant macro with a non-integer value, or one out of limits
21. Do not use inconsistent comparison functions
22. Do not use `bsearch()` on an array not in the proper order
23. In a header name, do not have the characters ', \\, ", //, or /\* in between the \< and > or the characters ', \\, //, or /\* in between the quotes.
24. Do not compare pointers that point to different objects.
25. Do not have operations with side effects within an initialization list.
