---
tags: 
 - intro
 - section
 - front-matter
 - front-matter-section
---
# Introduction

This standard provides rules for secure coding in the Fortran programming language. The goal of these rules and recommendations is to develop safe, reliable, and secure systems, for example by eliminating undefined behaviors that can lead to undefined program behaviors and exploitable vulnerabilities. Conformance to the coding rules defined in this standard are necessary (but not sufficient) to ensure the safety, reliability, and security of software systems developed in the Fortran programming language. It is also necessary, for example, to have a safe and secure design. However, the application of this coding standard will result in high-quality systems that are reliable, robust, and resistant to attack.

Each rule consists of a *title* , a *description* , and *noncompliant code examples* and *compliant solutions* . The title is a concise, but sometimes imprecise, description of the rule. The description specifies the normative requirements of the rule. The noncompliant code examples are examples of code that would constitute a violation of the rule. The accompanying compliant solutions demonstrate equivalent code that does not violate the rule or any other rules in this coding standard.

A well-documented and enforceable coding standard is an essential element of coding in the Fortran programming language. Coding standards encourage programmers to follow a uniform set of rules determined by the requirements of the project and organization rather than by the programmers’ individual preferences. Once established, these standards can be used as a metric to evaluate source code (using manual or automated processes).

These pages contain ongoing updates of the standard between official published releases. For questions and comments about these standards, open a GitHub issue. For anything else, please [submit feedback](https://www.sei.cmu.edu/contact-us/).
  
