---
tags: 
 - fm
---
# Guidelines for Contributors

Before contributing to the Android Secure Coding Standard, be sure that you first request and receive an account that enables you to access and edit pages in the standard. Then review the following information to ensure you understand how the content on these pages is organized:

-   [Rules Versus Recommendations](/android-secure-coding-standard/front-matter/guidelines-for-contributors/rules-versus-recommendations)
-   [Deprecations](/android-secure-coding-standard/front-matter/guidelines-for-contributors/deprecations)
-   [Editing Automated Detection Information](/android-secure-coding-standard/front-matter/guidelines-for-contributors/editing-automated-detection-information)
-   [Editing-Related Guidelines](/android-secure-coding-standard/front-matter/guidelines-for-contributors/editing-related-guidelines)

## Guidelines for OurCS Workshop Participants

If you are participating in the [OurCS Workshop](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/ourcs/register.html) , you must add the following text box (with your name added) to every page you modify or create. Add this text box to the top of the page, just below the title.

This rule was developed in part by \< *participant names here* \> at the October 20-22, 2017 **OurCS Workshop** ( <http://www.cs.cmu.edu/ourcs/register.html> ).  
For more information about this statement, see the [About the OurCS Workshop](/android-secure-coding-standard/admin/about-the-ourcs-workshop) page.

### 

### Modifying an Existing Rule

1.  Copy the above statement in the box above (This rule was developed...) by highlighting the line and typing Ctrl-C.
2.  Open an existing rule page.
3.  Paste the statement just below the rule's title by typing Ctrl-V. Tip: If the box doesn't come with it, undo the paste and insert one cell from the Table menu and then re-paste the statement inside that cell.
4.  Make your modifications to the rule.
5.  Describe the changes you made in the "What did you change?" box at the bottom of the page and click Save.

### Adding a New Rule

To add a new rule, follow these steps:

1.  Open the New [Rule Template](/android-secure-coding-standard/admin/rule-template) page.
2.  Make a copy by pulling down the dot menu and selecting Copy.
3.  Change the name of the copy to be a short name for the rule.
4.  Click Save.
5.  Ask someone with administrative privileges to move your new rule to the appropriate Rule category.

Caution

Do not create a new rule or recommendation by making a copy of an existing one and removing and replacing old content. That method causes problems:

-   You might inadvertently copy erroneous formatting and sectioning.
-   You might accidentally keep content from that rule or recommendation that doesn't belong with the new one.
-   You may not get all of the standard sections for the new rule or recommendation if the old one did not include that section.
