# Type Safety

Java is widely considered to be a type-safe language \[ [LSOD 02](/sei-cert-oracle-coding-standard-for-java/back-matter/rule-aa-references#RuleAA.References-LSOD02) \]. For that reason, it should not be possible to compromise a Java program by misusing the type system. To see why type safety is so important, consider the following types:

``` java
public class TowerOfLondon {
  private Treasure theCrownJewels;
  ...
}

public class GarageSale {
  public Treasure myCostumeJewelry;
  ...
}
```

If these two types could be confused, it would be possible to access the private field `theCrownJewels` as if it were the public field `myCostumeJewelry` . More generally, a *type confusion attack* could allow Java security to be compromised by making the internals of the security manager open to abuse. A team of researchers at Princeton University showed that any type confusion in Java could be used to completely overcome Java’s security mechanisms (see *Securing Java* , Ch. 5, Sec. 7 \[ [McGraw 1999](/sei-cert-oracle-coding-standard-for-java/back-matter/rule-aa-references#RuleAA.References-McGraw1999) \]).

Java’s type safety means that fields that are declared private or protected or that have default (package) protection should not be globally accessible. However, a number of vulnerabilities are *built in* to Java that enable this protection to be overcome. These should come as no surprise to the Java expert, as they are well documented, but they may trap the unwary.

A field that is declared public may be directly accessed by any part of a Java program and may be modified from anywhere in a Java program (unless the field is declared final). Clearly, sensitive information must not be stored in a public field because it could be compromised by anyone who can access the JVM running the program.
